Questions:
What makes authored games more specific and diverse than folk games?
Is it better that digital games have more control than physical games?
How did the basis/foundation of role playing games come about?

  The question I'll be diving into further is the first one; what makes authored games more specific and diverse than folk games? Given that video games have expanded, and have somewhat changed, yet stayed the same over time, it seems like somewhat of a broad question to ask. However, I've deduced that it;s due to there being greater connectivity to the player, greater avenues for author exploration, and better consistency. 
  
  The first reason why I feel authored games are more specific and diverse than folk games, is the fact that there is greater connectivity to the player of the game. According to the text "Rise of the Video Game Zinesters" by Anna Anthropy, an authored game is a game created by one specific person, as opposed to the multiple authors that folk games use. She also goes on to add that folk games are often times very multi-culture heavy, given there are multiple contributors from various cultures. However, with one author, one would know exactly what the game should be about or entail, if they know that specific author of the game's work. Depending on how much we like that author's work, we coukd be more or less likely to stick with their content they're putting out in the future. When we listen to our favorite music artists, we listen to them for their specific qualities, the things that set them apart from any and all other gaartists out there. The same concept applies with video game, and content makers as well. 
  
  The second reason why I feel authored games are more specific and diverse than folk games, is because of their greater avenues for author exploration. Another thing mentioned by Anna Anthropy, is the statement that authored games tell us more about the author that made the game. This is something that can also be very fascinating with each individual no matter who or what they are: their story. We often seek inspiration for what we're doing, or even just to continue to move forward in life, and we can often find that within the personal testimonies of other's lives. With playing authored games, there's the possibility that we could learn more about the author as the game goes on. For example, there are often times story telling credits within games inbetween transitioning segments, or loading screens. The author of the game has the freedom to put in something personal they've encountered, or even learned. Things such as this, where we watch, or can somehow see the author's story unfold, allows us to better explore who they are, and where they came from. 
  
  Lastly, the final reason why I feel authored games are more consistent and diverse than folk games, is due to there being greater consistency within them. As aforementioned, with folk games, there tends to be a hodge-podge of multiple cultures mixed into the narratives of the games being played. Anthropy, the author of 'Rise of the Video Game Zinesters", goes on to say that due to this, folk games themselves change up over time snd live longer, as opposed to the narrative. This goes to show that at any given moment, the script could be flipped within a folk game, in ways one wouldn't expect due to someone else adding on parts of their culture, and narratives on to the ongoing list of what's already present in the game. On the other hand, when you have one single author, the story, can at times be more consistent, or expected based off of how they may set up the game. Challenges and changes can still come up unexpectedly here too of course, but as you tend to stick with one author, you come to adapt, and get used tpo their style of authorship., and  game creating. With this, you csn better decide if you will stick with their games and content, or if you'd like to play a different type of game, or search elsewhere for a specific type of game, or story. 
